This guy was supposedly getting hints via vibrating anal beads.
- I'm sorry, what now? - Yes.
- Anal beads. - Yes.
- Via anal beads. - Yes.
- Anal beads, of course. - Yes.
- Can we go back to the anal beads? - Yes.
- I came in at anal beads and left at anal beads, so.
- Anal beads? Yes.
(upbeat music)
- Matt was a voice teacher.
- Yeah. - How do you,
what's the term for that?
I botched that really badly.
- There's loads, I was. - Okay.
- Technically I was a few different things.
I was like a singing teacher and a voice coach
and an acting coach and a public speaking coach.
So all sorts of bits. - Wow, yeah.
- It's not the same gear, basically, so you can kind of
blag your way into any chubby fancy.
It was great fun, yeah, I did that for like six years.
- The one that stood out a lot there was the accent coach.
Like you would teach people how to have
a fake British accent or any accent.
- It was, so I was contracted for, for example,
at a drama school where I taught people how to do
an American accent for like six months or something.
- That is amazing.
- Isn't that crazy, a general American accent?
- Can you do an American accent right now?
- Can you do one?
- I can do one, yeah, of course.
- Well, it's been a long time, oh no, I can't do it, man.
I can't do it.
- Oh, man, it's been way too long.
- It's been way too long.
You can look though, there's a whole,
I've got a whole YouTube channel
of me teaching different accents.
- This is amazing.
I can't believe I've ever seen this.
- So I taught a Brooklyn accent, like a Scottish accent,
a friend, I mean they're all terrible, you know,
like I look by now, it's just like, you know what I'm saying?
Like if you look back at yourself, you don't feel embarrassed,
you know, you haven't grown.
So that's like a living proof of that.
But it was crazy actually,
'cause when I was doing my YouTube stuff,
I was having to do, I was having to battle
against my old channel, which was also Matt Pocock.
So having to do SEO against myself from his career,
which is bizarre, yeah.
- Could you maybe throw in some like Scottish
or Brooklyn accents into some TypeScript content?
That would be amazing.
You just merge the two worlds.
- When I did more streaming, I used to, you know,
just, I don't know, knock out a Liverpool accent
or something while I was going.
I can still do this one, this one's locked in, you know?
I guess you probably don't know this accent too much to you,
'cause it's like--
- I've watched a lot of British media, so, I know.
- What was that one?
- This is Liverpool.
- Liverpool?
- Oh, it's close.
- It's close to Ireland, actually,
it's just over the Irish sea, but, yeah.
- Okay, that is that in the UK?
It's all the same to me, I guess.
If it's British, it's just to be careful.
- Ireland--
- But it does sound different than your voice.
- Thank you.
- I don't know.
(laughing)
- I can definitely tell you--
- You're doing something.
(laughing)
- That's all I get.
It sounds differently in a more voice.
- Wait, so how did you learn all these accents?
Do you just watch TV?
- My history with it is, if you wanna get really deep,
which is I started as like, it was like my first job,
basically, out of university, was I was,
my friend basically had a web business
where he would sit on all these domain names,
like singing lessons Belfast or singing lessons Exeter or whatever.
And he said, right, I've got this domain
that's like number one for this keyword.
Could you take some singing lessons?
'Cause I was a singer and I sort of knew what I was doing,
but I'd never taught a singing lesson before.
I never actually had a singing lesson before.
And so I just thought, oh yeah, okay, I'm gonna have to give this a go.
And I just fell in love with it, basically.
I was so addicted, and that was straight out of university.
I did that for six years.
And I was kind of, you just, I just learned it out of books.
And when I got singing, training myself and gots,
I then did this Masters at Guilford School of Acting,
which is like a proper drama school,
which was a super weird experience.
You could imagine like, the drama on Tech Twitter is nothing compared
to the calls about actual drama school.
Yeah, it was quite a good preparation, actually.
- Yeah, and then for the year of that,
I moved to London and worked in some various drama schools and stuff.
And then my way of getting into Tech was actually like,
I was absolutely sick of London.
I hated it.
I wanted to move back to the countryside,
which is kind of where I'm from.
And so I thought, what's a good skill that I can learn?
I've got a bit of free time because I was teaching singing lessons.
I had gaps in the day.
What's the skill that I can learn that I can do from anywhere
that will mean I can move to the countryside
and still in a decent wage?
And that was Tech.
- I know here I am.
- Wow.
Yeah, it's wild to think of you not being in Tech.
You talk about the voice lessons and all that stuff.
I've heard you talk about it, but I just assumed
you did it on the side of your Tech career.
- That was the whole, that was the dream.
That was like, wanting to be one of the best singing teachers in the world,
if I could, and like, make it happen.
But you just had to live in London, really.
Because that's where all the drama schools are,
that's where all the clients are, that's where everything is.
So, or New York or whatever, but you know, I never want to live in America.
- Fair, totally fair.
How much is there like a, does it rhyme in terms of teaching
all the things you used to teach and teaching TypeScript or other Tech things?
Does it feel like there's a lot in common there or is it just totally different?
- It feels completely similar.
And it really felt like, so I was an engineer for, you know, five years or so
before I moved into this, and, which is not, not a terribly long time,
but when I started doing it, it just felt like, I see all the pieces are coming together.
I got this long kind of teaching background and then this sort of tech background
and now, boom, all together, feels good, feels really good.
- So, your whole tech career, that was fully remote then.
So you just like, get a job and then just move out as soon as you could?
- Well, I did a bit of, I did quite a lot of start-up hopping, basically.
So my first job I had was actually in person, in Oxfordshire, which is where I live.
And that folded after about five months, through no fault of my own,
I think the company just ran out of money, basically.
And then I moved to an agency and was mostly remote and somewhere else that was mostly remote.
So, yeah, and, because I was working from home when I was a singing teacher as well,
mostly, I've been working from home for, well, since like 2012 or something, like crazy.
- Yeah, I love it, though. - It's wild to me.
I'm still stuck on the whole, you've just grew in tech for five years.
Like, that's encouraging for anybody that wants to be like the best at a thing,
because you're like the TypeScript guy.
- Yeah. - And I just assumed like,
you're like those soccer players that were like born on the soccer field,
that you like were born in the depths of TypeScript somehow,
and you've been doing it for your entire life.
But like the fact that, max, you've been doing TypeScript for five years,
and you're like the TypeScript expert, that's pretty wild and encouraging.
- Yeah, it's odd for me, you know, it's not a position that I expected to find myself in.
I think if you're good at communicating things,
often I find that the best engineers out there are actually just the best communicators,
you know what I mean? The best at bringing people into their world view,
the best at writing PR descriptions, the best at kind of just smoothly communicating their code.
You know, so it always felt quite linked to me in that way.
- It's also funny that the bar is also like pretty low.
I mean, I'm not trying to, I'm not just coming off as insults, but.
- From DAX, I mean, it's coming off as genuine insult.
But like, I think what I found is, I think people in our field are so especially bad at that stuff.
So even if you're just slightly, if you feel like any like slight amount of attention,
it starts to really go up.
- It felt like an astonishing advantage when I started being in tech, you know what I mean?
I would be in these meetings and often go to interviews as well,
that I had no business getting actually, and would just walk it, you know,
because I could actually just talk my way through a full sentence, you know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- Which is, I just not something that people tend to prize, you know,
I think we have this idea of the 10x engineer that just kind of sits in code in their brain all day
and then spurts out binary, and then like, that's our model for how like the genius weirdo, you know,
whereas, I don't know, I think you can be much more competitive by improving your communication.
- Absolutely.
- I'm realizing I've had this belief as well, and I'm just not good at like articulating these things.
- Yeah, that's fine.
- And anyone who, it's like your book.
- Anyone who listens to this podcast, no, not the best communicator.
But I have been really good at like sales in terms of software stuff.
Like when I was freelance, when I was in consulting,
I always felt like I could get on a call with a potential client and win that work.
Like I would get some kind of work in relationship with this person just from like getting on a call with them.
So I don't know if that's communication or if it's something else, personality or I don't know.
There's something there that I've always felt like, I'm not that good at programming,
but I seem to do pretty well at this one thing.
So I do think it makes sense in my brain.
- Yeah.
- I think most of what being a programmer is is not programming.
You know, it's all the stuff around the edges.
And it's the stuff around the edges that is where most of the value is, I think.
Not actually writing the code.
- Yeah, it's like it's both me and Adam.
And it sounds like you also spend a lot of time as consultants, just like on our own.
And you'll often see a threat on hacker news or somewhere where someone posts something like,
"Hey, I'm interested in going freelance, how do I do this?"
And you can tell that it seems like such an impossible mystery to them.
Like, how do you possibly do this?
And all the replies people are actually talking about how difficult or like impossible it is kind of.
But it's funny because if I look back on how I actually did it, it's like the stupidest,
most straightforward thing ever.
Like you spend time, find one connection, do a good job.
Then we find another connection.
And then find another connection.
And that first connection comes back to you a year later being like,
"Hey, I remember you did a good job.
Let's like do more stuff together."
Over time, if you build good relations with people, it just starts to compound.
It's very, very straightforward.
But I just see people talk about getting into it.
It just seems like an impossible mystery.
- And I imagine it feels quite insecure for people who haven't done it before as well.
Full disclosure, I haven't done that much self-employed stuff.
I've mostly been employed and then doing courses.
But I was self-employed as a single teacher because before that.
And it's all about the amount of repeated streams of income
and the more you have, the more they hedge against each other.
Because it's often like, "You're self-employed.
How can that possibly, that must feel so insecure as an income stream?"
But if you've got seven different clients that you work for sporadically,
if one goes, you just find another one, it's the most secure kind of income.
- Yeah, I agree.
It really is.
Yeah, I was just going to say, it always felt so hard to leave.
Because a couple of times in my career, I've left a stable,
you just get paid job and gone on my own.
It's always so scary that first leap, and then once you do it,
you realize it's actually the ceiling's just so much higher
and you never end up making less than you did.
It's just like, it's better in all the ways, but it is scary.
Especially if it's your first time, I would imagine.
- Yeah. - I'm curious, though, because I was
self-employed for six years and then I got a full-time job,
which was my first full-time job I've ever had, first 9 to 5.
And what I noticed was I would rock up in the morning and slowly over time,
this little kind of ticking clock that was in my brain,
that had been since I was 21, just disappeared.
I was like, "I no longer need to think I can take holiday."
And they would pay me for not doing any work.
You know what I mean? How amazing is that?
And that little anxiety just sort of went away and I just felt free.
And I think it's there again, because I'm back self-employed now.
I think it's back there.
But I can't tell, and I won't be able to tell until I get a full-time job again.
- Yeah. - Is this something you guys feel?
- 100%. It's totally there.
And I think it shows up in very practical ways where if you're someone that builds
by like the week or by the hour, whatever it is, so you won't go on vacation.
Okay, your vacation costs $2,000.
And it also costs like the five grand you're not going to make that week.
So I really just become like, even if you're not explicitly thinking about it,
like there's just friction to all of those things.
So yeah, definitely it feels like when things always go,
you're always like juggling.
There's a good juggler in your head, basically.
That's what it feels like for me.
- But I've only had one of those real jobs that you mentioned.
And I would say during that period, it was very...
Like I went into it thinking this is going to be like vacation.
I've never like just had a job where I just clocking clock out, get paid.
But like I still had all the side projects.
I didn't actually drop all the other stuff.
It's like I still tried to fit it all in.
It just got more stressful.
So I think for some people, you just can't turn off that itch to do your own thing.
And if you try to work at a normal job, you just end up doing it all and it sucks.
That's how it worked for me.
I guess maybe that's like a once-in-a-lifetime thing for me then,
because I was coming off being a singing teacher.
And it's not like I could, you know,
because I moved to a totally different place.
Not like I could like do my singing teaching in London on Sunday.
- Yeah, sure, yeah.
- So it was just, oh, it was lovely though.
I recommend it though.
Just move to a different side of the world and, you know.
- Yeah, there you go.
- Give up all your side projects.
- This connector and everything.
You have no eye on it.
I guess when I had a baby, I think fraternity leaves both times.
That was probably the only time in my career I felt really unplugged.
You just can't do that, right, Matt?
- So I, yeah, my baby was literally teething like
five, 15 minutes ago screaming in the house up there.
And yeah, he was born in January.
And it's been surreal because I sell courses now.
People will buy the courses,
whether I'm working or not, you know, which is amazing.
It's the closest I've felt.
It's kind of like passive income, you know.
And so for the last like five months or so,
I've been working maybe eight hours a week or something.
It's been so good.
- Wow.
- It's just the animal baby.
It's been--
- It's the dream, man.
- It's been amazing.
It's been amazing.
- Is that your dream, Dax?
You're not a normal human being.
Is that your dream?
- That does sound really nice.
- It's not.
- And I think, no, no, no, I think it is.
I think that's like definitely what I'm working to for sure.
That's like what, that's like what I,
it's a point of doing everything I'm doing now, I think.
- Yeah, I don't know what it'll be like
if I actually get that, like maybe I'll like it for a bit
and I'll go crazy, but I definitely need to be working.
But I don't think it needs to be like working on a baby.
It seems like it would still count, you know?
- Working on it.
- I mean, it's kind of like, I like that way of saying it though,
because it does feel like that, you know.
When you're putting baby clothes on, it's sort of,
it's like--
- On the baby, now I do.
- It's like, it's like, thank you, thank you.
Cause that's really--
- I mean, we can see his hands.
He was like gesturing that there was a baby.
He was putting them on.
But when you think about the sentence, it is kind of--
- When you're putting baby clothes on.
- You're doing something that has,
the fruits of your labor are immediately apparent, you know?
I mean, you're very connected to the outcome of your work,
which is just often not something you get when you're coding, you know?
- Yeah, sort of do.
You know, you get a nice little dopamine feedback loop and stuff.
But yeah, and that's been great.
So I thought I would be like, you, Dax,
I thought I would be like, feeling the fever to work all of the time.
And I'm not, it's great.
- Yeah, I wonder, I've always wondered what my time frame is.
Like, at what point of having that kind of schedule,
where it's like actually way less stuff going on?
Like, is it six months, is it a year?
I do think there's some point on the horizon
where I would start feeling like I need to do something.
- I think you're maybe worse than,
I feel like this is more dangerous for you.
I feel like, based on your personality.
- Yeah, I'm kind of, I'm a manic.
- Yeah.
- I'm hypo manic or something.
I get a little like nuts, if I'm not outletting.
I don't know.
But then I'll have weeks, like Casey goes away for a week.
She's at a volleyball camp right now.
And when I'm full-time dad,
I feel like I can just channel my focus beam,
like that intense thing that I do
into like being the best possible dad.
And it's kind of fun.
Like it is like, it's a type of work.
It's like the baby.
It's like, it's not the same.
It's totally different.
But it's, there's all these ways you can min-max it.
And you can like do these things to get ahead of stuff.
And you got the chores going, you got the kids going,
you got everything.
It's like, you can still kind of do it.
It's interesting, in any area of life probably.
- Yeah, although I think it rewards your focus in that way.
You know, it does actually reward the more you put into it,
the more you get out of it in an odd way.
Kind of just like coding, just like work.
It rewards itself.
- If we're not working towards slowing down at some point,
then what are we doing?
Like I hope that that comes.
It's awesome, Matt, that you've gotten there.
Yeah, I don't know, my wife doesn't believe it.
She doesn't believe I'll ever slow down.
But I'd like to think I will someday.
- I think you have slowed down like 1% every year probably.
So I would imagine you probably passed like the worst.
- Probably just like, that's just getting old though, isn't it?
- Yeah, getting more of a better taste.
- Because that's your younger risk.
- I don't even know, Matt, how old you are, I guess.
I know DEX is like early 32.
- I'm not that young.
- I'm 33.
- So I am older.
I'm just getting slow 'cause I'm old.
- I'm 37.
I'm gonna be 38 this year, just a month or so.
- Wow.
- Geez, yeah, I know.
- Geez.
- So you've all in 1986, is that right?
- Yeah, '86.
- I read a stat today that 1986 is the same distance
apart from 2024 as it is to 1938.
- Oh my god.
I hate when people do that.
I hate when people pull that trick.
- Oh, sorry dude.
- It's like, to me, the 70s were 30 years ago.
Always.
- Yeah, I know.
It's always gonna be 2000, yeah.
- 50 something years ago.
- That's like my completely mind blowing.
- Yeah.
- I guess not every generation gets that.
Like not every, not every generation kind of goes
over the millennium boundary or whatever.
- Yeah, but I feel like that's gotta be a phenomenon.
- Yeah, like everything's oriented around that point
in my head.
- Uh-huh.
- Yeah.
- That is crazy.
But yeah, so I don't have any kids,
but I think we probably, we're planning for that soon.
Probably not a very similar timeline to you
if you're older than me.
But yeah, we'll see.
- I don't think--
- Check back in a year.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Can you break the news on the podcast, please?
Sorry, continue.
- Give me back in.
- No pressure.
- I'm just gonna be holding a baby.
- I think that was a good one.
- That's actually what I want to do.
I want to like not say anything at all
and just completely drop it unannounced
because I don't think I give off the vibe of someone
that would have children or like would be seen with a baby.
So you'll be like very shocking for people.
- I feel like you're a fatherly figure on tech Twitter.
You're just talking down to us all.
- I'm like a flaminar race.
- I'm like an immigrant fatherly figure.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So this is an important part of the DAX brand.
It's like childless, available.
- Yeah, available.
- Yeah, I'm not available.
No, no, no.
- I'm not available.
- Wow, you know.
- Hopefully not.
- There's nothing telling you down.
- Just a dog in a way.
- And as we've talked about before,
you know, having a dog is exactly like a baby.
It's exactly, basically the exact same thing.
- Exactly, yeah, yeah.
- I can't wait to have a baby so that I can be like,
can now that I have a baby,
I can confirm it's the exact same thing.
And I'll just upset everyone.
- So, yeah, so easy.
- So what do you do for fun, Matt?
Oh, sorry, you were going to ask an important question.
And I'm, oh, really?
I just don't know much about you as a person, you know?
- You live in the country, do you farm?
Is that what you do?
- I don't find, no.
I don't, it's not that country.
It's like, it's town, you know?
It's town.
- Yeah, I grew up in a small town.
- I grew up in a place like that too.
- Like how many people are we talking?
What is a small town in the countryside of the UK?
- The town I grew up in was like 8,000 people, I think.
- Okay, yeah, we're--
- This is, I think there's like 1,000 people here,
500 people here.
And then we're moving somewhere even smaller, actually.
- Oh, really?
You're trying to get away as far as you can from everyone.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I'm all about that, Lesh.
- Yeah, it's going to be great, man.
We're moving to this place where it's just like,
there's just beautiful walks all around.
There's like some really rich people
who just live up the hill.
And so like the surrounding countryside
basically can't be built on
because it's going to spoil their views.
So it's just kind of nice.
- Very nice.
- I can't wait.
- I went to Europe for the first time in my life
a couple of weeks ago, but what is it?
So when you say you go and live in a house,
is it like you have it backyard in a front yard?
Or is it like, what's like the situation?
Do you have like a property?
Like do you have a forest?
Like what's a deal?
- No, we have a backyard, front yard of reasonable size.
We don't like, it's not like we have peasants
or surfs or anything.
It's just like, it's just got a bit of land, basically.
A plot.
We don't have as much space as in the US, obviously.
So comes, it costs a pretty penny, as we say.
- Oh, it's just a big island.
I didn't think about that.
- What do you mean?
Well, you guys are a big island, technically.
- Well, yeah, I guess everything's big.
You really think about it.
- Yeah.
- There's water everywhere.
But like, it's a smaller island than the US, right?
Like, so space is premium, but there's countryside.
I mean, there's places where it's not super developed, right?
- That's true.
But it's just like, there's just enough to squeeze
into a postcard and, you know, for the brand.
And then it's kind of just stuff, apart from Scotland,
where it's just, you know, deserts, basically.
- Yeah.
- Or desolate area.
- So how close is this?
- It's desert in Scotland.
- Oh, sorry.
- How close is the next house?
- I'll lick a PDF.
- How close is the next house to you?
Like are the houses like right next to each other?
- Yeah, it's like semi-detached.
So it's literally built.
- Okay, that makes sense.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, I mean, Miami is like very similar.
Like I have a house with a front yard and a backyard,
but it's obviously a city by a lot of space.
- Yeah.
- So the houses are next.
- You're Miami.
Wow.
- Cool.
- I was in New York for 10 years,
and I moved to Miami three years ago.
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah.
Not the country, really.
- Mm-hmm.
- More than the swamp.
(laughing)
- I love the country.
The Ozarks are kind of like the country in America, right?
- Mm-hmm.
- It's like the countryside.
I sit on two acres.
- Yeah, I watch the show.
- Yeah, show.
- That's crazy.
Two acres.
- I got all kinds of room.
You guys should move to the Ozarks.
- That's my only thing with the Ozarks.
That's all I know about the Ozarks is money laundering.
- Before that, yeah.
Before that show, nobody knew anything.
I never said the Ozarks before that show,
because no one would know what that was.
I've grown up in the Ozarks.
I knew what it was, but then Jason Bateman put us on the map.
I get to say I'm from the Ozarks,
and people are like, "Oh, drugs and stuff."
- Oh, yeah, basically.
(laughing)
- Cool, okay.
- Yeah.
- We never let you finish, so--
- Oh, yeah, what do you do for fun?
- Yeah, so you move out to the countries,
and then you're not gonna farm.
- I'm not gonna farm.
No.
I walk.
I, what the hell do I do for fun, man?
- I know, I have trouble answering this question, too.
- There's a few games.
- Yeah, there's a tough one.
- Oh, I got into juggling randomly last year.
- Whoa.
- Yeah, 'cause I wanted to do something with my hands
that wasn't like coding or playing video games, you know,
so I just like got into juggling.
And now, every morning,
sit my boy down for like 20 minutes
and just aren't juggling.
It's fantastic.
- Does he like it?
- It's great.
I've got really good, you know.
(upbeat music)
- Oh, he's back.
- I'm back.
- Yes.
- My wife, my wife took my keys
and then just destroyed my internet somehow
with like her magnetic field or something,
something happened in our days.
(both laughing)
- No joke, my wife, like, we've, we're convinced
she's got something with electricity.
Like she has fried so many watches in her life.
Like three different watches have died on her.
I've never had my watch die.
- I never even heard of that.
- Like just stop working.
- Yeah, no, I'm serious.
And then there's other weird stuff that's happened
where she like touched something and electronic
and it stopped working.
I'm telling you, there's something there.
We don't understand it all yet.
- Okay, is there a X-man like that?
(both laughing)
- Maybe.
- What are you?
- What a useless power.
The badest stop time, but like not literally just like.
- So is that the singular of X-man?
X-man?
I suppose it is, isn't it?
- X-man.
- Yeah, X-man, right?
(both laughing)
- Hi, I'm an X-man.
- I'm an X-man.
- Yeah, you wouldn't say I'm an X-man.
- Yeah, that doesn't mean the X-man.
- I am part of the X-man, I guess.
- Yeah.
(both laughing)
- I'm an X-man.
- Oh yeah.
- Like your business card would read X-man, right?
I mean, for X-man, I guess.
- Yeah, yeah, that's your LinkedIn profile, right?
That's Wolverine, X-man.
(both laughing)
I was thinking, I've had this for a long time
where I, you know when you say like I fit in somewhere
or like the past participle of fit is fit, right?
I think it should be fat, you know?
When I join the company, I fucking really well.
Like, sats, you know?
Do you know what I was like?
- Oh, oh, it's so good.
- I think Americans don't use sat as much as you guys do.
- What?
- Really?
- No, I say, that's the famous cultural difference.
- No, no, no, no, no, here, here, here.
Of course, we'll say I sat on the bus,
but I think you guys also use it in this other way
where I can't think of an example.
Like a, there's something where they say like,
"I had a sit or something."
Don't say?
- How about that?
- How did I make that up?
- I had a sit down.
Is it, you say that?
I'll have a sit down.
- I have a sit down?
Yeah, do you say that?
We don't say that.
- Yeah, we say that, yeah, yeah.
Can I have a sit down?
- Oh yeah, we wouldn't, we wouldn't say that.
- Oh, really? Okay, wow.
- But there's a time we don't say sat.
- That's what you're saying.
- I'm struggling to think of an example, but.
- I've been struggling this whole conversation
ever since Matt said past participle.
I don't know what that is.
I'm sure it's a real thing, but I grew up in the Ozarks
and I have no idea what that word means.
- I grew up in the Ozarks and I have no education.
- Yeah, basically, yeah.
- That's my shit.
- Okay, yeah.
- But yeah, I like juggling.
I like juggling a lot, yeah.
- So, was it like a months long learning curve?
Or do you just pick it up pretty quick?
- Yeah, it's like, if I want to learn to juggle.
- You want to learn?
- I said, if I do, I don't, but if I did too much.
(laughing)
- A couple months?
- No, no, no, it's not that long.
You can probably learn a couple days.
- Well, you can juggle.
- Yeah, the basic, the basic, this one?
Yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I can do two in one hand.
I can do that for a little bit.
- Very nice.
Yeah, that's about it.
- They've got names, you know, there's the cascade.
There's the reverse cascade.
There's the little mess.
- The mess.
- The tornado.
- I'm making up.
(laughing)
- They've got names, though.
- I feel like the fact that you can learn it in two days,
though, kind of took some of the shine off,
a little bit of the mystique of juggling.
I thought people who could juggle,
it's like this crazy skill that they've learned over years.
- But it's not a binary thing.
Like I can do, like I said, the cascade,
I think is probably what it is.
And I probably can't do it as smooth as Mac can,
and it's probably a lot of other juggles
and things you can juggle.
- You couldn't like go, like, stand on a stage
and do cool stuff that people would be entertained by.
You're not there.
- Yeah, I think I would just start insulting people.
That's mostly my talent.
(laughing)
I don't know if for 30 seconds,
and then I would just start insulting the crowd.
- Insulting people are not having children.
That is the Dax brand.
(laughing)
- No, wait, to be clear,
my bread is not that I'm one of those child-free people,
'cause I finally put a very, very annoying.
I wanna make sure that I'm well past the phase in my life
where I thought that was a cool thing, so.
- Glorifying of lack of children.
Yeah, not part of the Dax brand.
Just incidentally, not having children.
- Yes, yes.
- Okay, I gotta ask what video games do you play?
- Dax plays video games.
- I haven't in a while, but.
- So I'm an enormous football fan, soccer fan.
So I've played probably, I think about 3,000 hours
of various football manager games, you know, like.
- Oh, football manager, I love it, man.
It just sucks you in.
- I've actually never heard that term,
but I can imagine, is it like you manage the team
and you hire players and you do some of that?
- Yeah, yeah.
- 'Cause there's that in American sports games
where you can like manage the team, the franchise or whatever
and you like manage them over years, but that's so fun.
- Football manager, like a dedicated game
where it's just that and there's no like.
- Oh, see that's the problem with the other games.
Like if you play Madden, like I used to in college.
- You have to actually play the football game.
- Yeah, or you like sim the games,
but then you lose something.
It's kind of like less of a game.
It's you lose something if you don't play the game.
It's not quite as like a first party.
Like this is the point of the thing.
So that's awesome.
There's a game that the whole point is just to be the manager.
- It's great.
- Are there even like, there aren't games?
You don't have to play them.
You just, it's assumed.
They're gonna all be simulated as how it works.
Or can you actually play the game?
Like you can actually play the football game now.
- No, you can't.
- No, you just.
- Just the man. - You're just on the side.
- Yeah. - You're watching.
- That's the best.
- You're making subs, you're shouting onto the field.
- Yep. - You're.
- Oh wait, you're actually on the side of the,
like on the side line. - Like your first person view
or something, you're like.
- Okay, okay.
You're looking definitely buff.
- You got it. - Yeah.
- It's great. - Yeah, no.
- I've asked a lot of questions.
- I'm gonna start. - I'm gonna be our head, sir.
And the experience is just being on the side
of a soccer match.
It's just like.
- Also, I'm not joking that I've played
a lot of Eurotruck simulator too.
- Oh, you're one of those people I see.
Okay, I'm gonna feel, you like the simulations.
You like living another life.
- I like, I like lots of stuff.
But like, weirdly, yeah.
I got, I mean, I bought like a steering wheel for that.
You know what I mean? - Yeah, I got like two.
- Have you, yeah.
It's really, weirdly addictive.
- What is a Eurotruck?
- You said a Eurotruck simulator?
- It's a American truck.
- It's a truck simulator, and then Eurotruck,
it's not Eurotruck simulator.
(both laughing)
- So it's a European truck, like like a 18-wheeler.
Like you drive across the country and deliver goods,
but it's a simulator to do that.
- Really?
- And it's really common.
- What part are you simulating?
Are you simulating the driver or the logistics people
that are figuring out where to get stuff?
- You have the football match, you want to see the truck go by.
(both laughing)
- It's the first soccer ball.
- Oh, yeah.
- No, you're driving.
Yeah, you're driving.
You know, it's got like--
- You're driving.
- Realistic rain simulation, you know?
- Yeah.
- Wait a minute.
You're telling me, I'm sorry.
- Yeah, people literally do this.
- There are simulations for being a truck driver?
- Yeah, yep.
- It's like five--
- That's a thing.
- It's like five quid, and it is so relaxing.
It is like the pieces of relaxation.
- And it's real, like, so I have so many questions.
- Is it like a flight simulator in the sense
that it's real environments, like real highways?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Oh, it really is.
- Realish, you know.
Like, 'cause you don't want to be driving the truck
for like eight hours at a time, you know?
So it's like, oh, you made it to--
- Yeah.
- I don't know, speeds it up on whatever.
Yeah, and there's, you know, you get all this DLC
where it expands the map of Europe and stuff and--
- Okay, this actually sounds great.
- I just, when you think about it being like
a truck driver simulator, it sounds less appealing,
but then the more you describe it,
I could see it being fun.
- It would be a crazy plot twist
if eventually they just connected you to real trucks,
then you're just running real routes,
and they just got rid of having to have them pay drivers
so people wouldn't do it for free,
as long as they can do it from their house.
- To be honest-- - Yeah, that is cool.
I got super into, so the reason I have a steering wheel
is I got really into racing, like to the point
where I had the VR headset, the steering wheel,
the force feedback, like all of that stuff,
and me and my friends would just spend hours every single day
just racing the same track over and over like lap,
after lap, after lap, and we'd be like,
"Oh man, got down like one-tenth of a second,"
and that was like a big accomplishment for it.
And it's, I feel like physical grooves
in my brain around that track.
Like if I like go and play it again,
I can like feel the turns,
I can feel exactly what everything is.
You did it so much. - That's awesome.
- That's super into it, yeah.
- I love that kind of, that's such a thing,
the unique to video games is it kind of, it retrains your brain
in a certain way, you know what I mean?
Like you just respond to stimuli differently
when you really log in and like, ah, that's great.
I admire that.
- Totally escapes, yeah.
And even when I'm driving, so my, the thing I always say
is everyone says that, oh, where I'm from
as a craziest driver is, but like objectively it is Miami,
like anyone that comes here is always like,
oh, okay, nevermind, it's fine back home.
Like people are insane. - Yeah.
- So I'm always having to do like crazy maneuvers
to dodge people and I can feel like the training
from the simulator, like kind of kick in.
Like I'm like hitting the brake and turning the wheel
in a certain way and like-- - Wow.
- It's funny though, 'cause I'm like--
- Drifting. (laughing)
- Crazy.
(laughing)
- Well, race cars are funny 'cause they don't have
all this automatic stuff that normal cars do.
So it's very easy to like spin out.
Don't like treating my car as though it's that sensitive,
it's not like it doesn't need me to be that intentional
about things, but yeah.
- Are you into Formula One Dax?
- Yeah, super, I haven't been to it as into it
in the last couple of years, but there was a period of time
where I was like obsessively following it.
Yeah.
And they opened up a Miami track in the last two years.
I haven't gone yet, but I do plan to do that.
- Yeah, I got into it in a few years ago
when Verstappen was racing Hamilton
and it was really, really exciting.
And then Verstappen's just won every time
and I really hate that little rat boy.
I just wanted to lose all the time.
(laughing)
- My thing, okay.
So here's my thing with Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes.
- Obviously for years, he was just crushing everyone.
But do you remember that race when they put,
he's a younger kid, he was on another team
and they put him in the Mercedes car?
One of the races.
Yes, was it, was it Russell?
- Yeah.
And he like was doing insane.
He did like so much better than he ever did before.
And I was like, okay, so now I know how much of this
is Lewis Hamilton and how much of it is,
is like the Mercedes team is obviously amazing.
Obviously it's both and there's like a crazy synergy
and you know that, if you like follow the sport.
But yeah, it was weird to see this guy
that was pretty much always in the last place,
every single race, just so like rocketed at first.
And I think in that race, it was something crazy.
Like his car like hit a nail or something
and he got a flat tire.
And so that's why he ended up not going like this.
- And then Sergio Perez came from like starting 20th
to finishing first.
Like it would be one of the craziest races for the time.
Yeah, but it's never that exciting, like.
- Exactly.
That's what I was gonna say.
- So the thing with F1 is why I stopped watching it is,
it's a two hour or so race on like the actual race day.
And you're sitting there watching, hoping you catch,
hoping that this race is the one
where something really insane happens.
But most races are very technical and consistent.
It's like the people that started in first ended up in first.
Cause like it's a formula and everyone's like drilled it.
And like this guy always gets 1/10 of a second faster
on every lap.
So he ends up first, like it's always works out that way.
But occasionally you'll get like these five minute bursts
of like the most exciting thing you've ever seen in your life.
So you're just chasing that all the time.
- Yeah.
It's built for highlights basically.
And there's often races where there are just no highlights.
It's absolutely insane.
How can you design this for this boring,
but sometimes it's mildly exciting.
- Well, it's about the lifestyle also, right?
It's like the classic one was who was like,
who was the guy that always was with Hamilton,
that was his teammate?
- Bottas.
I think it was him where I think it was in Monaco.
He crashed 'cause he was out of the race
and he gets out of his car, walks off the track,
keeps walking straight onto a yacht and just sits there.
(laughing)
That's the rest of the race.
Yeah, he was like, he was like, I'm done with the race.
He just walked right off onto the yacht, those parked right there.
So it's like a, you know, it's like rich world sport.
- Yep.
- You gotta get to it.
- It's rich NASCAR.
- Yeah.
- This is what I'm gathering.
- Yeah, this is what a NASCAR is like hillbillies
and Midwestern United States.
Formula One sounds like very rich people in Europe.
- Yeah.
- Is that accurate?
- Someone joked about like, yeah, we're all just watching
a bunch of billionaires like race around the track.
(laughing)
- Yeah, we're on a track on all of that for so hours.
- Billionaires in traffic, basically.
Just going around and around.
- Exactly.
(laughing)
- I can't hear that, he's depressing.
- I actually really, I've wanted to get into F1,
same with European football.
Like, these are things, as an American,
there's things I wish I had.
I wish I'd used the metric system.
I wish I was into football like the rest of the world.
And I've wanted to get into F1,
but you guys are not making a great dish.
It's not sounding like a thing.
Okay.
- The best thing about this is just a Netflix series,
'cause that like dramatizes everything.
- So that's what I heard.
I heard it's so good and you'll get into F1.
- That's what that means to that, as well.
- Yeah.
- Okay, so I can just watch the Netflix part
and then not get into the sport
and I get the best of all of it.
- Okay.
- What's crazy is that that Netflix series,
so F1 as a sport has grown like insane
ever since that series.
Like just that one decision to let a film crew in
and do this, I think it like,
like these teams are valued at a crazy amount now.
People that invest in the teams at the right time
having a crazy return that they're looking at.
But yeah, just that one documentary was super effective.
So you should go watch it, yeah.
- Another thing that I'm kind of into
or I'm sort of going and out is chess.
I really like chess.
- Okay.
- I used to play a little bit, like actually in person
locally as well, but I kind of suck.
And the Queen's Gambit did exactly--
- Oh, I've watched the Queen's Gambit.
- Blued it, chess.
Like it sort of came at the same time as lockdown
and chess is free to get into and you can just play
and it has like this literally,
that's what they talk about.
It's like an era before the Queen's Gambit
and an era after the Queen's Gambit.
- Interesting.
- It's just fantastic.
- Like chess clubs and local like chess places
and blew up and attended that for now.
- Yeah, I've seen that.
- One of the biggest things on Twitch.
Like they have chess tournaments
like first streamers on Twitch as well
like PogChamps or something.
It's huge.
Like chess--
- Interesting.
- Biggest chess YouTuber Gotham chess
gets millions of views per video.
Like crazy, crazy.
- It's actually just like tech Twitter
'cause I will peek into there once a while
and it'll be like guy reacts to Gotham chess
and he's like, there's some drama
and they're like, I'll piss at each other and--
- Oh, yeah.
- Yeah.
- There was a guy who was accused of cheating.
- Yes, I remember that whole thing.
That was crazy.
- I, via anal beads.
- Yes.
(laughing)
- I'm sorry, what now?
- Yes.
- I'm gonna need you to elaborate a little bit.
- So when you go into a chance tournament,
they obviously, you can't have a phone
'cause then you can just look up the moves.
You can't be communicated with in any ways
or they search you.
And this guy was supposedly getting hints
via vibrating anal beads that he had.
- Wow.
- Allegedly.
- That is magic level.
- Yeah.
- I know.
- Wait, wasn't that like Magnus Carlson accused him
of that, wasn't it?
- I think he said something.
So Magna Carlson, biggest one of the best chess players
of all time, he said something like,
you know, he doesn't seem like he's playing like a human,
you know, he seems like a human with, you know,
some stuff going on.
- Anal beads, of course.
(laughing)
- I'm convinced, I don't know about the anal beads thing,
but I'm convinced that I could pull off cheating
in one of those tournaments.
I feel like it's, if you are like committed to cheating,
if it doesn't seem that hard to sneak something in,
is it that hard?
They didn't make you play naked, like what?
- It's actually, it's really interesting
because they actually couldn't just feel
when you're cheating.
- Yeah, this is the, yeah.
Well, I mean, it would be suspicious if I just showed up
and he started like racking people,
but never heard of you and you're beating everyone, yeah.
- Beating's, yeah, yeah, yeah.
(laughing)
- That's the American accent confusing us again.
Not beating, beating.
(laughing)
- Not beating, yeah.
- Beating.
- We have said anal beads on this episode,
at least six times.
That's six times more than any other episode.
- That's great.
It's coming up in the most innocent way possible
in reference to--
- Absolutely. - Put up chess.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- Didn't he also get banned from chess.com
for other cheating he'd done in the past?
- And no idea, yeah, I sort of,
I came in at anal beads and left anal beads, so.
(laughing)
That was my interest.
Pete.
(laughing)
- Now I wanna get into chess.
Everything you've described, I just wanna get into it.
- I don't know if you're smart enough.
- But you have a very, you're a good communicator man.
- Thank you.
- You're selling me.
Selling me on chess.
- About chess, it's great fun.
I mean, it's very dangerous for you because
I got into it when I was a singing teacher
and I just like, you know,
you play like five minute games or something.
You know, five minutes for you,
five minutes for your opponent.
I got into like three minute games as well.
And I just, you know, stopped answering emails basically.
I just stopped functioning as a human being.
(laughing)
And my business went like that.
I got, I didn't even improve that much as well as the project.
(laughing)
I sacrificed, ironically, sacrificed so much time to it.
And I just sort of got maybe a five percent better.
It was horrendous.
- That's exactly my experience with video games.
Like, 'cause Steam, when you like go to click
to play an era of games,
it shows you right there how many hours you've put into it.
- Oh yeah.
- So certain games were hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of hours and I'm like not really that good.
- Yeah.
- I'm like 10 percent better than where it was when I started.
- The rocket league.
- Absolutely.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Everyone that plays video games is better than me.
That's like my experience of playing any multiplayer.
I'm like, oh, I'm just literally the worst person
in the world 'cause they can't match me
with a single person that I am better than.
- Yeah, my experience with games was always that
I'm just so slow.
And I thought it was just that I was like
of the wrong generation or something.
Like is it the younger generation is just twittier
and faster and like, but I guess it's card games too.
Any like speed, any card game where you have like
slapperly fast, I'm so slow.
I have like terrible reactions.
- We're spending like so much time on my hobbies,
but like that is actually the main thing
that I'm into is board games.
- Oh really?
I've been trying, I wanted to start,
I wanted to like enter that.
- Okay, yeah.
I'm your guy.
I can help.
- Do you like collect them as well?
I knew someone collected them.
- I've got a shelf of board games.
Yeah.
And actually there's very spill over shelves in here as well.
I like.
- What's your favorite board game?
Or your top three?
- Right now, I guess.
I know it's always changed for the board game people.
- It is, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I haven't gotten to play that much
in like the last five months or so for six reasons.
Yeah.
- That life goes.
- Cosmic encounter, I think has to be my favorite board game.
- I've never heard of it.
- What is the pitch, the description?
- It is relatively simple.
It's like poker in space.
So you're bluffing, you're trying to take over
other people's planets.
It's pretty simple, you're playing cards
and doing various things.
But there are a hundred different aliens
that ship in the box and everyone is a different alien race.
And they all have powers that just completely break the game.
So every single game is different.
- Oh, nice, I love that.
- Every game's different.
- There's a power where like one player
maybe their ships just can't be killed.
They are indestructible.
And it's like, how the hell are we gonna get around that?
You know what I mean?
And so you gotta work together, you gotta negotiate,
you gotta work out, okay, we'll just destroy them first
and then go to this person.
Then it turns out that this person has some hidden secret power
where it takes 10 turns
and they just win the game automatically.
You know what I mean?
It's just explosions of various stuff
and it's so much fun.
So every single game is different.
- What was it called again?
- Cosmic encounter.
So that sounds incredible.
It sounds like the best board game I've ever heard of.
If you ever like actually go to Target in America
and like look at the board games,
there's never any good board games.
It's like all the classics are at the top
and then all the new stuff is garbage.
I've never seen anything remotely interesting like that.
- Yeah, I know.
This is like a different world.
So I have a friend here that is super into board games.
He gave me this game called Castles.
I don't know if you've heard of that one.
- Just Castles?
- I think it's just called Castles.
Yeah, we've still yet to--
- Castles are Mad King Ludwig or something.
No, no, I mean that was actually a board game.
That's not a punishment even.
- Oh really?
- Uh, of Mad King Ludwig.
Okay, is it this one?
Yes, it's this one.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- What's the same one that Matt just said?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The box.
- I've never played it, but it's supposed to be really good.
- Wait, actually it's right behind me.
- Oh, sick.
- Oh, we're gonna get a little visual.
- Yeah, no, I can't.
It's under a bunch of other board games, but yeah, okay.
It is, it is this one.
Me and my wife still haven't played it,
but he recommended it because it's good
if you're like new to this stuff
and it's fun even with just two people.
And I think that was my count.
Like a lot of traditional board games,
like they all suck with two people.
Like so boring, but this world,
like then there's a lot of options for things like that.
- Yeah, I don't have people to come play with me.
So it would have to be good for two or two people.
- How many kids?
- Like if my oldest, I've got a,
he's eight is my oldest and then four.
So eight, yeah, could an eight year old
play cosmic encounter?
'Cause this sounds so fun.
- So I think yes, I think yes, actually.
- Okay, probably not a four year old.
He'd probably have to resort to cheating.
- Yeah.
- Not in the way that we've talked about.
- That was too hot, not gonna make that joke.
Not about my four year old, nope.
(laughing)
- It's just gonna move right past that one.
- So this episode has got a lovely,
kind of cyclical nature.
(laughing)
So it was just wiggling down.
So it was the same two words again and again.
(laughing)
- Okay, so where do you get the good board games?
Where do you find these?
'Cause they're not at Target.
- Yeah, I mean, there's a board game cafe
in Oxford that I go to
that my friend works out, actually works it different.
But yeah, they've just got hundreds of these things.
They're great.
- Okay, yeah, I'm just gonna buy 'em online.
(laughing)
It's like, they don't have some of them.
- They're looking about right now.
'Cause once they have my house in the grocery store
and that's basically it.
(laughing)
- My house.
- This is not already in the house, it's not there.
- Boardgamegeek.com.
Do you guys visit this?
Is this your home page?
(laughing)
- Very well respected.
A well respected right here, yeah.
- It was number one on Google
when I searched for cosmic encounters,
so I get the sense.
- Yeah, yeah, I've seen my friend's collection
and he's got so many.
And some of them take an hour to set up
and so complex and once it's set up,
you have to play it over the course of weeks even
and you can't touch it or mess it up.
- Jeez.
- It's cool.
- How many, do you have friends that just come over, Matt?
How do you play board games typically?
Do you have a board game night?
- Yeah, I have a couple of game nights that I go to.
I was looking to set up like a JavaScript meetup
with this guy called Pete who lives locally
and we just sort of gave that up
and started playing board games instead.
(laughing)
- JavaScript is boring.
Yeah, just do that instead.
And it's way more fun.
And yeah, yeah, so I've got some board game dads
that hang out with as well, you know, like, it's great.
- It's a great way to meet people, honestly.
- That's awesome.
- That is cool.
All right, so I'm gonna switch topics a little bit
just 'cause, you know, let's talk about JavaScript,
I guess.
(laughing)
- So what are you working on these days?
So I know you had your big course,
which seems very successful.
Are you working on like more stuff related to that?
Like what is, what's occupying your time?
- Yeah, so since August last year,
I've been working on two things that are linked.
I've been writing a book.
And that book is now with the publishers.
So it's been published through No Starch
and it's kind of being done in the No Starch style.
It's sort of part of their range.
And it's gonna link in with a new course
that I'm building as well,
which is basically like,
if you think of total time scripts, my course,
it's kind of not really total.
And I mean, it's kind of like intermediate
and up, up, up, up.
I mean, I haven't really tackled the beginner-y stuff
all the way up to intermediate and that sort of area.
- Yeah, so you've made stuff for DAX,
you haven't made anything for me.
- Yes, exactly.
I need the beginning.
- The beginning.
- Yeah, early, early beginning.
- Yeah.
- I haven't done that because it's really hard.
It's really hard to teach that stuff in a way
that I like to teach it,
which is in an exciting way, you know?
I like to actually find the nuggets of good information
and pull them out and hone in on those
and kind of fix it in people's brains in a really good way.
Like, this is techniques that I learned
from singing teaching, you know what I mean?
If you just tell someone do it, then they do it.
But if you tell someone in a metaphorical way
where it makes sense and the information's organized correctly
and they're having challenges that they go along the way.
So it has taken, I think there's like 400 videos on it,
like 200 exercises, like it's nuts.
- Oh my god.
- Huge thing.
- Wow.
- That I've been planning and recording.
I'm also doing workshops on so I've been doing live workshops
at a couple of companies to kind of test the material out
and stuff.
It has been a huge amount of work.
And then baby came along as well.
So it's been sort of slowly growing since January.
And so that, I think is gonna come out in June.
Like, it's gonna come out pretty soon.
- Wow.
- And it's going to be, despite all this work,
it's going to be, I think about a third of the price
of total time scripts.
So it's gonna be priced at kind of beginning to medium level.
- Yeah.
So they're gonna buy for themselves.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
- And I'm trying to make it so that it's like,
'cause I think we total tax script as it is currently,
a team will look at that and they'll go,
we'll look a bit advanced.
You know what I mean?
Like, are my engineers really gonna benefit from this?
You know, it's obviously expensive,
obviously worth the money, but like it's advanced.
I kind of wanna just make a no brainer course.
Like that a company can buy, you know, like 50 off
or something and just go bam,
train all your engineers and let's just have it.
And that's it.
So that's what I've been working on for 10 months.
Yeah.
Wow.
Crazy.
- The question I have is,
so I think there's this interesting dynamic that exists now,
which is you presume that a beginner is entering,
like they know programming,
but like dynamic languages and learning a typed language
is like a next step thing that you do
and that people perceive it in that order.
And I think that makes sense.
I think that is true a lot of people,
they do follow that path.
But to the point where people describe it as like,
oh, it's like too challenging to learn both
at the same time if you're new to programming.
But then I think back to my own journey
and like I started with C#, which is a type language
and types with effectively this exact like C#.
And yeah, it's not like I understood all the deep type stuff
'til later, but it also didn't get that much in my way.
Like I still get to learn programming.
It wasn't in like, I don't remember being that much
about hassle to learn and learn about types.
So is your course targeting like someone new to programming,
someone that knows programming,
but doesn't like, how do you think about all that?
- If you look at like TypeScript's documentation,
it's targeted at people who already know JavaScript,
basically, you know what I mean?
It's not really for new programmers.
And I don't think TypeScript is,
because TypeScript is JavaScript, you know what I mean?
Every design decision that has been made by TypeScript
is made because it compiles to JavaScript.
That's the reason, that's the reason it exists.
And so in my course, I just assume people know JavaScript
to a decent level.
And that I think is like a decent assumption.
It's not always paid off that well in the live workshops
'cause some people like who come to the live workshops
have only done Python, you know what I mean?
I've had a couple of people like that.
And it's structured in such a way where, you know,
like they get a sense of what the JavaScript does,
but actually, it's mostly just teaching the types.
And that I think is where the industry is right now.
It's like, a lot of people know JavaScript
and a lot of people that know it a bit
and just need to be moved over to TypeScript,
join the TypeScript revolution, you know.
Yeah, so that's where it is.
- Yeah, so like the specific cases I think about
is because my wife has been learning programming.
She's not new to building software.
She's done everything besides the actual programming part.
So if she's coming with some context,
but there were specific things.
So we tried doing that route where like,
I learned JavaScript first,
like let's ignore the types stuff for now.
But there were certain concepts
that were actually made easier with types.
So I was trying to explain to her
what function arguments were.
Like, now here's a function, some A, B.
It was way easier for me to use the TypeScript version
of that where it said A colon number.
'Cause then I clicked for her bar.
She was like, oh, this is an argument
that always has to be a number.
Of course, that's some function
you go with the passing numbers.
So that one, that specific case, I was like,
oh yeah, it's maybe like even better
to have a statically typed language, even for a beginner.
And then two, obviously all the,
when she went off to do something on her own,
doing TypeScript gave her way more hints in the editor.
And I found that to be like, we didn't have
the LSP setup initially.
And then when I turned it on,
she was like, so I was getting all this feedback
and that like helped her massively also.
- Yeah, that's fascinating to me that.
'Cause that is something I've been turning over
in my head for a while, really.
Like, since I've started doing this course,
it's part of me is thinking,
what if this was targeted at new programmers?
What would that look like?
And probably TypeScript will get to a point at some point
where it just doesn't make sense to learn JavaScript first
because you're not going to get actual JavaScript jobs.
They're mostly 95% can be TypeScript jobs, you know?
- Yeah.
- So you're probably right.
Like there's this kind of,
the idea to just feel so much more powerful.
You're getting all these hints.
It's really nice.
Like I was teaching my friend how to code
and we did a bit of CSS.
And, you know, she was kind of like piecing together,
seeing how it works and go, okay, yeah, okay.
It works on the next day.
Our next time we met up, we did Tailwind.
And she was like, why didn't you just teach me
this, you know?
It's just so much more powerful.
It's just, you know, I get all the stuff I want.
You know, I just go bam, bam, bam, bam, bam.
What the hell we did last week?
- Yeah, yeah.
And it's funny 'cause again,
if you go back to my experience and I was in C#,
I had all that.
Like I had, I was using Visual Studio,
which was like a fantastic IDE
with all this stuff built into it.
Even like rewrote my code for me when it was inefficient.
Like it just was super useful.
So yeah, we were looking for,
okay, what's the best way?
What's the best course, what's the best resource
you can start with?
And everything was very JavaScript focused.
And I don't know, just like trying to get her up
to speed as fast as possible in both.
It just felt like might as well,
I wish there was just something that,
now we'll just commit a TypeScript from the beginning.
- No, I just don't think it exists, actually.
I don't think there is something like that.
And it's something I have thought about
maybe made resources for or thought about making it.
Currently there's not a kind of economic incentive
for me to do that.
My stuff is not for beginners.
You know what I mean?
I do have a beginner's course.
That's beginners are not where the money is
in terms of people who I don't like asking beginners for money.
You know, like I want to ask people
who have got a job, you know, that kind of thing.
There's definitely got to be something there.
- Yeah, yeah, just because we looked
and obviously something that categories could be free.
Like they're to be free resources.
But yeah, like there was a lot of really great stuff
but no one really committed to TypeScript yet.
Yeah, that's cool.
- Well, maybe I'll have a bit of free time
after this course launches and I can do something else.
You know, that's going to be great
finishing a massive piece of work and then just.
- Oh man, no kidding, 10 months.
That's a huge size.
You're going to, you're going to close the world's most
amount of browser tabs that have ever been closed at once.
I'm guessing.
- Yeah.
- Some baby tabs mixed in there, like changing diapers.
- Close my tabs every five minutes.
Like it's, I don't know what you're talking about.
- I think I might be pretty much unique
in that I basically only have one browser tab open at a time.
- Yeah, see, exactly.
There you go.
- What?
- You guys are crazy, I am in the norm here.
- How do you find anything when you don't?
- You don't, you just leave them all open
and then eventually you close them up.
- Yeah, man.
- But I'm like, it's awful.
- You were that guy in a student house
that would never tidy up his, like, you know,
you would never do the stuff off to your cook.
- No, that's true.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I am very messy, not very messy.
I am extremely organized and precise in my digital world
but like, my physical world is nothing like that.
It's, I'm actually the opposite.
I'm actually pretty physically organized and my digital,
like, my downloads folder is an infinitely growing cesspool
of everything I ever downloaded and I never touch it.
I never delete anything, yeah.
- That's funny.
- In box infinity, the whole thing.
I just, I'm pretty digitally unkempt.
- The, the other question I had was,
you said you're writing a book.
I was always curious about the economics of a book
because, so as a consumer, I've never bought a course.
I've bought plenty of books,
mostly when I am trying to get into a completely new topic
and I just need to go as deep as possible
to buy the book and read it.
I know I have, like, basic coverage of it
but books are so cheap and they seem really hard to produce.
So do people make any money off of books?
Like, how does that all work?
- I kind of buried the lead on, on what I was saying before
'cause actually we are giving the book away for free.
- Oh, I see, okay.
- It's, I mean, it is, we're, we do have a print version.
- This, yeah, I mean, people do make money off books.
You know, like, these are, these are textbook size things.
These are, like, retailing for a decent price
and obviously as soon as you've made the book,
like, I think one of no starches, Bigger Sellers,
is just a, basically, a book version
of the Rust open source documentation.
- Right.
- That's one of the biggest sellers
and people just like it 'cause they just like the feel of it
and they like, it's almost like an aspirational thing,
you know what I mean?
Like, they buy the book and they think, right,
if I just set the book over there,
the knowledge will just travel over here.
But it is a nice experience, you know, reading a book
and taking your pencil to it.
- Yeah, I like books in my, oh,
I have a whole stack of programming books there.
- I think developers just have enough money that, you know,
they can justify buying or having a whole industry
that's just taking information on the internet
and putting it in paper, putting it on dead trees
and then shipping it.
- But do you feel like the book that you wrote,
does that feel like the same amount of work
for an equivalent course or was it more work, less work?
- I finished the course quite a while ago, actually.
And then writing the book has taken a lot longer.
I think probably I had the baby at a time
that meant that writing the book was
and I tend to find recording videos a lot faster
than writing, just a lot, lot, lot.
Because I've got this public speaking background,
I can do it very, very fast and writing takes a lot longer.
It's still relatively fast, but I don't know,
you probably feel the same.
I feel the same way.
I feel like if I'm going to spend 100 hours,
I could like equivalent, of course, versus writing.
I feel like a course I could definitely get out writing
seems a lot more challenging.
- Yeah.
- That's what makes me want it.
And the course is make so much more,
or at least it costs so much more per whatever.
So yeah, like once I, once I clicked for me,
I was like, how does anyone, like,
why does anyone even write a book
when they could just make a course that, you know,
that was more or less accurate.
The reason why we wanted to do it was,
first of all, it's like, it's cool to have a book.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah, it's cool.
- Some people just want the book.
And like, it means we can offer something
that's at a different price point from the courses.
You know, like obviously we're going to have now,
like free book, free linked book, you know,
which is going to be so cool.
Great for SEO and stuff, great for inbound stuff.
People are going to share this all over the place.
It's going to be awesome.
Then we've got book, you know,
however much they sell it for.
And that's going to be on, that's going to be available
in places that are not digital, you know,
it's going to be like, people will stumble upon that.
People will see that on shelves and think,
oh, that's interesting.
I wonder what that is.
Look it up online, maybe find the course, you know,
it sort of seeds itself.
And then we've got mid price course
and then high price course.
That's the kind of offering now.
And so that's the rationale for the book, I think.
- Yeah, yeah.
I mean, even for us, like our company SST,
the first thing we ever built was a book,
actually a free book on how to build serverless applications.
And over the years, that has gotten crazy SEO to this day.
Like we still get a crazy amount of traffic,
just from that, like we haven't really updated it
as much as it should be.
And then now there's like real companies
where when we see their code base, we're like,
oh, you just took what was in the book.
And now it's like a company and a code base
with people that work there.
So yeah, it is wild to see that given enough time,
you watch that whole, whole funnel happen.
It's slow, but yeah, I totally see why how that works.
- It really pays off.
And the internet is built on text, you know what I mean?
Like eventually you're gonna need text
in your portfolio of offerings that you have, you know,
emails and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And it's hard to produce or I find it a lot harder,
but yeah, you gotta have it.
- Well, I'm just dipping a toe in this world now.
- Just a tiny little toe, I'm just dipping.
I'm not at 400 videos.
And every time I hear like you or can't talk about
just cranked out 400 videos for the next thing,
I'm like, oh my gosh, that's so much ahead of me
and I'm going too slow.
- You're doing a course?
- Yeah, I'm doing a pro AWS, I'm working with Joel.
I'm doing the whole thing.
I'm just at the very, very, very beginning of that journey.
- Happy to have any advice that I can, like, or like--
- I could just sit here and pepper do the entire podcast,
but I didn't want to do that for everyone that listens.
- I might DM you though, you've walked the path
that I would like to go.
I thoroughly enjoy teaching so far.
It's been fantastic.
I've done one live workshop and I absolutely love it.
So I hope--
- You're doing the journey, yeah, yeah.
- I'm doing it, yeah, we'll see.
But man, a lot of videos ahead, the 400, that's a lot.
- Every video, literally, if it's like a five minute video,
it takes like seven minutes to record, you know what I mean?
It's basically just me reacting to code samples,
talking through stuff, like mostly it's like,
I have this set up, if you've ever done any of my courses
where I set up a problem and then show my solution.
And talking about the problem,
it's literally just talking about code, you know what I mean?
So I just hit record, hit on record.
I've got a script that automatically cuts the silence
off the start and end of the videos
and then saves it in the right folder and back.
- Yeah, I've actually seen, I think I've read
the whole case study that they put on that as dev.
I've read your, like, I've read your process.
So I maybe have fewer questions than you'd be,
than you would expect because I've kind of like
poured over the material.
It takes me, currently I'm not taking your advice
'cause it takes me about 35 minutes to make five minutes
of video. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Like, I'm so slow.
- People really, I've got to like get over that.
- People really like fewer cuts, actually.
That's what I've learned is people really like it just,
just like say the thing.
It's like they're, you know, they're programming with you.
You know, it's like you're just on the course of it
and it feels more natural, I think.
And people really dig that.
And people can just speed up your voice as well, you know?
Like a lot of people, I think, just do the course
on 1.5 or whatever.
Yeah. - Yep.
- Oh, that's great. - Yeah, no, I'm excited.
It's, I mean, Joel's great.
Like having that crew, just the way they think about this stuff
and they've gone down this past so many times
that they just kind of can tell me what to do, sort of.
I mean, they say they're not your boss, but like,
I need somebody to tell me, like,
"This is what you should do next."
And that's so helpful to me because if I did it on my own,
they would take me even longer than it's already taken.
But people at home, that's badass.dev.
They've got maybe one of the nicest landing pages
I've ever seen. - Yes, it's so good.
- It's so nice.
And like, I've never been to Joel's house,
but I think the landing page was basically inspired
by his desk. - Yeah.
- Like, it's-- - I've seen the pictures
of this famous office. - It's a sane level
of impacts and weird stuff and like, just loads of weird stuff.
And yeah, I think, I've, I just felt like a,
I felt like a passenger in a Formula One car.
You know what I mean?
Like, they would just drive in to go back to a previous thing.
- Can we go back to the anal beads?
Is there any way it could pull that back in?
- We could. - We'll put that back in.
- I thought you'd get that signal.
And we would circle back to it.
And that would be the end of the podcast.
And like-- - That is not dev.
It's like being in a formula car with anal beads
at the same time. - And anal beads
that vibrate, yeah, yeah. - That's it.
You get the grooves in your mind,
you know, you put the VR headset on,
and you just looked in, is that part of the setup?
I don't know. - Oh!
- Matt, thank you so much for coming on.
This was so great. - I just, I had a great punchline
which only Dax would get which is like force feedback.
But, you know. - Oh, there we go.
(laughing)
I don't get that. - Take care.
- You're right. (laughing)
- Please don't have that thing, it was Oryx.
(laughing)
- Oh, it's great to talk with you guys.
- Yeah. - Yeah, great to have you.
- Cool.
All right, well, yeah, anything else to say?
It's a plug.
- Ah, you let me plug beautifully.
Thank you so much.
And, yeah, plug.
- If you're interested in TypeScript--
- I guess the new course.
- Yeah, TotalTypeScript.com.
It's gonna, all the new stuff will be there.
Is that right? - Yeah, so TypeScript.com.
There's, I mean, I've written maybe 60, 70 articles
on their free tutorials on there.
I'm gonna be doing a lot more stuff on the newsletter as well
and doing less on socials more on the newsletter.
So, yeah, that's nice and cool.
- All right, thanks again.
We don't really have a way to get off here.
We just, we say bye.
Bye.
- All right, thanks for coming, bye.
- Bye.
- Bye, thanks, bye.
(upbeat music)
- I'm sorry, what now?